>> Josh Long: GraphQL is really good.
I love GraphQL.
But, you know, if you're doing really
highly efficient kind of services,
you probably care about
something like grpc.
And so we're going to build
a GRPC service this time.
The problem with GRPC is, I mean,
it's not a problem, it's not a feature,
it's not a bug, it's a feature.
Right?
It's schema first.
Very much like the GraphQL stuff
we've just looked at here.
It's schema first.
And it's also, it's a little overbearing,
if you ask me.
It really requires you to change
the way you write your code.
So let's do this.
We're going to go over here.
We went to start.spring today,
we chose GRPC.
That was nice enough to initialize
us with a folder here called Proto.
And in the build we have down here
we have the GRPC dependencies and
the spring GRPC project,
Spring GRPC testing, and most importantly,
a whole bunch of different maven
plugins to support configuring that.
So let's do our last thing here.
Okay, we're gonna say users.proto, okay?
We're gonna create a GRPC file.
The syntax will be Proto 3,
we're going to say service users, and
it'll be a RPC service that'll
define a collection of users.
Now, in grpc, if you want to have
a collection of things, there's no like,
array syntax.
You just have to define a thing that
defines a collection of other things.
Right?
And in GRPC you also.
What is happening with this?
User service.
Yeah.
Okay, so in grpc,
everything needs to be accounted for.
So you need to tell the,
the protocol what is the offset of a given
type relative to the root of the type.
So int32id equals one string name
equals two string description.
Wait, no, what is the payload there?
It's ID, name, username, okay?
Equals 3, there we go.
So I'm just going to
return those three and
we'll say users returns
a collection of users.
We'll have an endpoint here, RPC style, as
opposed to fire and forget, whatever, rpc.
And we're gonna call this all,
which returns this, right?
So there's that.
And it's going to take nothing in it.
It's going to be a void.
So there's no default syntax there.
So I'm going to say Google protobuf empty.
I'll pass that in here, okay?
Google.protobuf.Empty, there you go.
So that's my service,
my one endpoint called all.
Maybe I'll just call it Users.
>> Speaker 2: Sure.
>> Josh Long: And user is the payload
type and there's the collection of them.
Now, because this is going to
be transpiled into Java code,
I need to provide some options.
So what is the outer name?
What is the package?
First of all,
that I want the code generated to
be the generated codes I live in.
Well, com example.web.grpc sure, why not?
Right.
And then java_outer_classname,
I'm gonna call this UsersProto, okay?
And then finally Java
multiple files is true.
Okay, there's my schema.
Now I need to compile that schema.
So maven package.
Users is not a message type, I disagree.
Let me just do all.
>> Speaker 2: Gosh, so tedious.
>> Josh Long: Okay, so
that's done some code generation.
If you look at the target directory,
go to the generated sources.
There's a folder called protobuf.
There you'll find two subfolders,
grpc, Java and Java.
In Intellij you need to mark
them as source code roots,
otherwise they won't get
picked up by your editor.
But in Eclipse and Visual Studio code, I'm
told you wouldn't have that problem, so
bully for you.
Okay, now we actually have
to implement that code.
And the way it works is you take the code
that was just generated for you and
you subclass it.
Okay, so class UsersService extends,
let's see, it's called
UsersServiceGRPCBase, okay?
And so I have to extend the one that's
given to me by the GRPC compiler.
It gives me a stub.
The super class implementation
does nothing, right?
It says it does something.
It'll actually actively blow
up if you try and call it.
Because it doesn't do anything useful.
That's what it's trying to say.
So what I need to do is to implement
it in terms of my own business logic.
But remember, we've just had
everything transpiled for us, right?
So as a result, we can't use our domain,
we have to use the transpiled code
generated versions of our domain.
So we're going to say this usersclient
Users get the collection of users.
For each one,
we're going to map through the results and
we're going to turn it into
the GRPC package user, right?
So this is ours.
This is what was code generated.
We're going to use the builder and we'll
say build and we're going to say set.
Username is u.username, setName is u.name.
setID is u.id, okay, .toList.
Okay, var all.
And now I'm going to return that.
I'll say response observer.
Okay, do that.
And then that.
Okay, so that should be.
Okay, let's see what that gives us.
>> Speaker 2: None public interface.
>> Josh Long: I don't
know what that means.
When in doubt, delete target.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Josh Long: And then just do this.
Wait.
Non declarative.
I don't know what this
is some weird thing, but
we can fix that by just ignoring it.
That is interesting, though.
So, okay, wait, comment this out.
Okay.
And then we'll use the one
that I commented out earlier.
>> Speaker 2: And we'll inject that here.
>> Josh Long: So actually,
I wonder if that.
We can just leave the code.
>> Speaker 2: Here.
>> Josh Long: Inject that.
Check that.
>> Speaker 2: Okay,
let's see if that runs.
This, staring me right in the face.
>> Josh Long: It's been a day.
Okay, here we go.
Take 512.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, I've got two different
REST clients, yeah, that's fair.
>> Josh Long: Let's just
comment at one of them.
>> Speaker 2: Get rid of that.
Get rid of that.
>> Josh Long: Neato.
Okay, so the service is up and
running after all.
Much ado about nothing.
And you can see that the GRPC
service is up and running as well.
So now we go to the console grpccurl,
--plaintext, okay?
And it's going to be called.
What do we call it?
User Service all.
And then it's localhost8080.
What did I do?
That's because of the declarative client.
It's not the GRPC stuff,
it's the client itself.
Where's the simple client?
>> Speaker 2: And
it's that HTTP typee code.
Okay, simple.
>> Josh Long: Client.
Put that in there.
>> Speaker 2: Return.
>> Josh Long: There we go.
So I called the GRPC endpoint.
It was having trouble calling the backend
HTTP service, but I'm getting the data now
via GRPC Curl, which is talking to my
GRPC service hosted in my Spring app,
which is running on HTTP
2 because GRPC requires.